Let's review the code for the re-entry guard exercise.
Before I go to this code, as I mentioned earlier,
it's a little tricky and it makes sense to walk through it
slowly and carefully and really think about it
from a stack perspective as we're going through this code.
So to reiterate here,
we have a counter variable that's initialized to one,
and then comes our modifier.
So the first thing we do in the modifier is increment our counter variable,
and again following best practice,
we use the add method versus just using the plus operator.
Next, we instantiate a local variable and set it to the value of the counter.
Now at this point, we've got a certain state,
we have our global variable rather called counter,
and we've got a local variable called guard that is set to that same value.
Now our function gets called.
Now let's imagine that the function is subject to a re-entrancy attack,
it's being called by other contracts etc.,
and as a result,
it loops right back and calls entrancyGuard again.
So at this point in the stack,
we've got entrancyGuard and the state that exists prior to the function call,
and then the function gets called,
and the process repeats.
As this happens, keep in mind that the require statement is not yet being called.
The require statement is going to be called after the function has completed executing,
which may be onetime or many times as the case may be,
and when it comes back,
it is going to check the value of guard and compare it to counter.
Now counter because it is a state variable that's at the contract level,
will have been incremented,
had the function being maliciously called by an external contract.
However, guard will maintain its local state value,
and when compared to counter,
that will immediately fail because the counter value will be significantly
far ahead off guard had the function being called repeatedly.
That is the main Re-entrancy Guard right there.
That line that says,
require guard equals counter,
it ensures that no matter
how many times that function is called by a malicious outside entity,
when it returns, it is not possible to proceed because it expects
the counter variable to be the same value
as when the modifier was first entered and if it's different,
it means that there was a problem, and so therefore,
the whole transaction fails and no funds can be stolen.
So that's how the re-entrancy guard protection works.